---
title: "Organization"
date: 2021-09-03
draft: false
description: "KernelCI project organization"
weight: 3
aliases:
  - "/docs/team/"
---

The KernelCI Linux Foundation project is composed of an [Advisory Board](board)
with representatives from all the member organizations as well as a [Technical
Steering Committee](tsc).  There are two main documents defining how the
project works:

### Technical Charter

> This charter (the “Charter”) sets forth the responsibilities and procedures
for technical contribution to, and oversight of, the KernelCI Project, which
has been established as KernelCI Project a Series of LF Projects, LLC (the
“Project”). LF Projects, LLC (“LF Projects”) is a Delaware series limited
liability company. All Contributors to the Project must comply with the terms
of this Charter.

[KernelCI_Project_Technical_Charter_20181107.pdf](/files/KernelCI_Project_Technical_Charter_20181107.pdf)


### Funding Charter

> Thank you for your interest in joining the KernelCI Initiative (the “Directed
Fund”), a directed fund project of The Linux Foundation (the “LF”). The purpose
of the Directed Fund is to raise, budget and spend funds in support of the
KernelCI Project a Series of LF Projects, LLC (the “Technical Project”), an
open source project and individual series of LF Projects, LLC, a Delaware
series limited liability company. The governance for the Directed Fund will
operate pursuant to the Directed Fund Charter (the “Charter”), set forth as
Exhibit B, and as amended in the future by the Governing Board with the
approval of the LF. **Please note** that you must be a member of the LF to be
eligible to participate as a member of the Directed Fund. For further
information, visit the [Corporate
Membership](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/join/members/) page at the LF web
site.

[KernelCI_Participation_Agreement_and_Funding_Charter_20180913.pdf](/files/KernelCI_Participation_Agreement_and_Funding_Charter_20180913.pdf)
